.TH SHR_STAT 3 SHR-%VERSION%
.SH NAME
.B shr_stat
\- Get the ownership and permisions of a shared ring buffer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <shr.h>
.P
__attribute__((nonnull(1)))
int shr_stat(const shr_t *restrict \fIshr\fP, uid_t *restrict \fIowner\fP,
             gid_t *restrict \fIgroup\fP, mode_t *restrict \fIpermissions\fP);
.fi
.P
Link with \fI\-lshr\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR shr_stat ()
function retrieves the ownership and permissions of a shared ring buffer.
.P
The current owner of the shared ring buffer will be stored to \fIowner\P,
unless \fIowner\P is NULL.
.P
The current group of the shared ring buffer will be stored to \fIgroup\P,
unless \fIowner\P is NULL.
.P
The current permissions of the shared ring buffer will be stored to
\fIpermissions\P, unless \fIpermissions\P is NULL. The permission bits
are restricted to read and write access for the owner, group and others.
If read access is granted, write access is also granted, and vice versa.
.P
The behaviour is unspecified if the shared ring buffer has been modified
so that the underlaying shared memory segment and the underlaying
semaphore array does not have the same owner, group and permissions.
Or if the permissions are set in contrary to described above and in
.P
The buffer size of the shared ring buffer can be retrieved by using the
\fBSHR_BUFFER_SIZE\fP macro as such: \fBSHR_BUFFER_SIZE\fP(\fIshr\fP)
.P
The buffer cound of the shared ring buffer can be retrieved by using the
\fBSHR_BUFFER_COUNT\fP macro as such: \fBSHR_BUFFER_COUNT\fP(\fIshr\fP)
.BR shr_chmod (3).
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the function returns 0.
Otherwise the function returns \-1 and sets
\fIerrno\fP to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shr_create (3),
.BR shr_remove (3),
.BR shr_remove_by_key (3),
.BR shr_open (3),
.BR shr_reverse_dup (3),
.BR shr_close (3),
.BR shr_chown (3),
.BR shr_chmod (3),
.BR shr_stat (3),
.BR shr_key_to_str (3),
.BR shr_str_to_key (3),
.BR shr_read (3),
.BR shr_read_try (3),
.BR shr_read_timed (3),
.BR shr_read_done (3),
.BR shr_write (3),
.BR shr_write_try (3),
.BR shr_write_timed (3),
.BR shr_write_done (3)
.SH AUTHORS
Principal author, Mattias Andrée.  See the LICENSE file for the full
list of authors.
.SH LICENSE
MIT/X Consortium License.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to https://github.com/maandree/shr/issues or to
maandree@member.fsf.org
