.TH SHR_WRITE_TIMED 3 SHR-%VERSION%
.SH NAME
.B shr_write_timed
\- Prologue for writing to a shared ring buffer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <shr.h>
.P
__attribute__((nonnull))
int shr_write_timed(shr_t *restrict \fIshr\fP, char **restrict \fIbuffer\fP, const struct timespec *\fItimeout\fP);
.fi
.P
Link with \fI\-lshr\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR shr_write_timed ()
function waits, for a limited time, for a shared ring buffer to be get
a buffer ready for writting, and flag it as being currently written.
.P
Upon successful completion, this function will store a buffer in
\fIbuffer\fP. The caller should write the data that should be
transmitted to this buffer. The number of written bytes must not
exceed \fBSHR_BUFFER_SIZE\fP(\fIshr\fP).
.P
When the data has been written to (*\fIbuffer\fP), call the
function
.BR shr_write_done (3).
.P
\fItimeout\fP specifies the time limit for the function. This
time is relative, not absolute.
.P
Undefined behaviour is invoked if multiple processes use this
function, even if not concurrently.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the function returns 0.
Otherwise the function returns \-1 and sets
\fIerrno\fP to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
This function may fail with the errors
.BR EACCES ,
.BR EAGAIN ,
.BR EFAULT ,
.BR EIDRM ,
.BR EINTR
and
.BR EINVAL ,
as specified for the function
.BR semtimedop (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shr_open (3),
.BR shr_reverse_dup (3),
.BR shr_close (3),
.BR shr_read (3),
.BR shr_read_try (3),
.BR shr_read_timed (3),
.BR shr_read_done (3),
.BR shr_write (3),
.BR shr_write_try (3),
.BR shr_write_done (3)
.SH AUTHORS
Principal author, Mattias Andrée.  See the LICENSE file for the full
list of authors.
.SH LICENSE
MIT/X Consortium License.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to m@maandree.se
