.TH SHR_OPEN 3 SHR-%VERSION%
.SH NAME
.B shr_open
\- Open a shared ring buffer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <shr.h>
.P
__attribute__((nonnull))
int shr_open(shr_t *restrict \fIshr\fP, const shr_key_t *restrict \fIkey\fP, shr_direction_t \fIdirection\fP);
.fi
.P
Link with \fI\-lshr\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR shr_open ()
function opens a shared ring buffer.
.P
.BR shr_open ()
can be used to create a private shared ring buffer.
To do this, before calling
.BR shr_open ()
use the \fBSHR_PRIVATE\fP macro on \fIkey\fP, as
such: \fBSHR_PRIVATE\fP(\fIkey\fP, \fIbuffer_size\fP,
\fIbuffer_count\fP), where \fIbuffer_size\fP and
\fIbuffer_count\fP are defined as in
.BR shr_create (3).
.P
The shared ring buffer will be owned by the calling
process's effective user and effective group, if
created by the call to
.BR shr_open (),
only the owner will have access.
.P
The shared ring buffer will be opened for reading
if (\fIdirection\fP == SHR_READ), and opened for writing
if (\fIdirection\fP == SHR_WRITE). No other values, or
combination of these values are allowed, lest the
undefined behaviour will be invoked.
.P
The behaviour is unspecified if a shared ring buffer
is opened for the same access direction more than once.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the function returns 0.
Otherwise the function returns \-1 and sets
\fIerrno\fP to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
This function may fail with any error specified for
.BR shmget (3),
.BR shmat (3)
or
.BR semget (3),
except
.BR EINTR .
It may also fail with any error specified for
.BR semctl (3)
or
.BR malloc (3),
if the function is used to create a private shared
ring buffer.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shr_create (3),
.BR shr_reverse_dup (3),
.BR shr_close (3),
.BR shr_chown (3),
.BR shr_chmod (3),
.BR shr_stat (3),
.BR shr_read (3),
.BR shr_read_try (3),
.BR shr_read_timed (3),
.BR shr_read_done (3),
.BR shr_write (3),
.BR shr_write_try (3),
.BR shr_write_timed (3),
.BR shr_write_done (3)
.SH AUTHORS
Principal author, Mattias Andrée.  See the LICENSE file for the full
list of authors.
.SH LICENSE
MIT/X Consortium License.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to https://github.com/maandree/shr/issues or to
maandree@member.fsf.org
