.TH SHR_WRITE_DONE 3 SHR-%VERSION%
.SH NAME
.B shr_write_done
\- Epilogue for writing to a shared ring buffer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <shr.h>
.P
__attribute__((nonnull))
int shr_write_done(shr_t *restrict \fIshr\fP, size_t \fIlength\fP);
.fi
.P
Link with \fI\-lshr\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR shr_write_done ()
function marks the, by
.BR shr_write (),
.BR shr_write_try ()
or
.BR shr_write_timed (),
retrieve buffer as written and ready to be read.
.P
\fIlength\fP specifies that number of bytes that were written
to the retrieved buffer. This length must not exceed
\fBSHR_BUFFER_SIZE\fP(\fIshr\fP), lest undefined behaviour will
be invoked. This also means that you should not have written
more than that, lest undefined behaviour is invoked.
.P
Undefined behaviour is invoked if multiple processes use this
function, even if not concurrently.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the function returns 0.
Otherwise the function returns \-1 and sets
\fIerrno\fP to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
This function may fail with the errors
.BR EACCES ,
.BR EIDRM ,
.BR EINTR
and
.BR EINVAL ,
as specified for the function
.BR semop (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shr_open (3),
.BR shr_reverse_dup (3),
.BR shr_close (3),
.BR shr_read (3),
.BR shr_read_try (3),
.BR shr_read_timed (3),
.BR shr_read_done (3),
.BR shr_write (3),
.BR shr_write_try (3),
.BR shr_write_timed (3)
.SH AUTHORS
Principal author, Mattias Andrée.  See the LICENSE file for the full
list of authors.
.SH LICENSE
MIT/X Consortium License.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to https://github.com/maandree/shr/issues or to
maandree@member.fsf.org
